# Victory Coffee

>'Half a second,' she said. 'Just let me show you what I've brought. Did you bring some of that filthy Victory Coffee? I thought you would. You can chuck it away again, because we shan't be needing it.' 

A prototype implementation of a subset of Newspeak on the JVM, written mostly as
a study in invokedynamic.

It implements a subset of Newspeak more or less as it existed at Cadence in late 2008. 
It has class nesting but not mixins. It does implement proper closures we
did not have in 2008. The focus was on the core compilation scheme. Runtime is
rudimentary at best, just enough to run some basic test examples. The following
are not implemented because they are trivial: subclassing, class initializers,
slot initializers.

## Branches

The commit tree contains five implementation experiments spread across four
branches. The experiments differ in their approach to representing Newspeak
values.

The `AllWrapped` branch is the earliest implementation in which all Newspeak values are
represented as objects, with integers always wrapped.

The changeset tagged with `ObjectIntPair` represents every Newspeak value as an
`Object`/`int` pair. The value is represented by the Object part if it's not
`NsObject.UNDEFINED`, and by the `int` part otherwise.  Method return values are
always `Objects`. To return an `int`, a method wraps it in an object.

The `IntReturnStackSameOrder` branch is a derivative of `ObjectIntPair` which
avoids the self-defeating wrapping above by pushing the `int` onto a
thread-local stack and returning `NsObject.UNDEFINED` to indicate that
the value should be popped from the stack of ints.

The `IntReturnStack` branch is another derivative of `ObjectIntPair`
similar to the above, but in which the order of Object/int parts
of values on the JVM stack is reversed so the int part is pushed first.
This permits a more streamlined comparison of the Object part with
`NsObject.UNDEFINED`, but requires more work to adapt the arguments
at the call sites to implementation method signatures.

The `default` branch is the latest and unfinished work-in progress attempt
at a dual Object/int implementation idea. It works around the inability
to return an Object/into pair from a method call by generating the code
in continutation-passing style. CPS translator is implemented, but closures
aren't, so many tests are failing and the `fib.ns` example won't work.
Given the complexity of the implementation, it doesn't look like this
is a path worth pursuing. 


## Prerequisites and Building

The repository is an IntelliJ project. For the latests commits of the
`AllWrapped` and `default` branches, it includes the required third- party
libraries and generated parser sources and should build in IDEA out of the box.

The Ant `build.xml` file in the default branch is another build option.

Parser sources can be regenerated by running `ant genparser`, or manually using
the ANTLR plugin in IDEA.
